Attendees:  Jeffrey Altman, Derrick Brashear, Todd DeSantis, Craig
Everhart, Laura Stentz, Warren Yenson.

Meeting Summary:

* Updates on 1.4.1 release

We are close to a release candidate.   The fifth release candidate will be
available in source form tonight on all platforms.  Binaries will be built
for Windows and MacOS.

* Confirmation of proposed release plan for 1.5/1.6

It was proposed that we release client-side byte range locking in 1.5 and
1.6 releases according to Jeff Altman's proposal sent to the Elders on
12/16/05.   The Elders have agreed with this plan with the announcement
letter.  Jeff will send out the proposal to the community for comment.

* Discussion of standardization of new RPCs and RPC extensions.  What
process should OpenAFS follow?

Jeff Altman has a collection of RPC extensions that he would like to have
evaluated.   Todd will go back and look at those from IBM's view point.
Jeff has proposed that we set up a standards mailing list to discuss
protocol changes.  It was proposed that we post to both the existing
standards mailing list and a new OpenAFS standards list.

*  DNS Contact

Laura agreed to be the new DNS contact.  Derrick will have this change
made, and he will have correspondence sent to Laura's IBM address.

*  USENIX Funds

There is $1200 in the USENIX OpenAFS account which could possibly be added
to the excess workshop funds held at CMU (Derrick will check).  The Elders
agreed that we should try to put the $1200 into the CMU account first and
then evaluate a formal proposal for spending the money.  (Other potential
items:  workshop, etc.)

* Approval of announcement letter regarding changes to the Elders (to be
sent separately)

Laura will send out a draft announcement letter on Elders/Gatekeeper
changes for approval by the Elders.    Please approve within 24 hours of
receipt so that we may move ahead with this announcement and with the
client-side byte range locking announcement letter.

* Meeting Notes

Derrick suggested that meeting notes be sent out to the community.  He
agreed to do this, and will send out edited minutes for comment or default
acceptance.

*  Next meeting:  February 28, 1:00 PM Eastern time


