Attendees:  Russ Allbery, Jeff Altman, Harald Barth, Derrick Brashear, Todd
DeSantis, Jim Rees, Jeff Schiller, Laura Stentz.


Agenda:

*  Development Update - 1.4.1 RC10 - We were hoping RC10 would be the final
release candidate;  however,  file server bugs were recently reported.
These problems must be fixed prior to a final release. The MacOS installer
with universal binaries - powerpc/intel is available.  We would like to
have those with Macs try this release.

*  RPC Standardization - Discussions are ongoing on the mailing list.
Todd has looked at this from an IBM perspective, and he doesn't think that
the impact would be significant.  It was mentioned that it may be
worthwhile to explore whether or not we could get a funding effort started
to submit this as a standard.  (But, even with funding, time and relative
priorities are also issues).

*  Windows Active Directory - There was a discussion on how we could
develop more "how to" documentation on using Active Directory with OpenAFS
for Windows.  There is documentation available, but not "step-by-step,
how-to" documentation.   There was also a discussion on whether or not a
viable wiki is available.  The use of Active Directory with OpenAFS is a
topic which some feel would be good for the OpenAFS Workshop.

*  OpenAFS Workshop - The OpenAFS Workshop has been scheduled for the week
of June 12 at UMich.  We are soliciting suggestions for interesting keynote
speakers.  (Please send a note to Derrick and/or Jeff if you have anyone in
mind.)  A call for papers has been published.  The committee will be
accepting papers through ~ April 25.  Those who have had papers accepted
will be notified by May 1.  If Elders have topics that would be of
interest, they are welcome to give talks and/or solicit experts that would
be interested in giving talks via openafs-info.

*  USENIX Funds - We expect the check to be sent to CMU shortly.  Derrick
will notify the Elders when it arrives.

*  Next Meeting - April 25 @ 1:00 Eastern Time (Daylight Savings Time)
