Meeting of September 1, 2009
Attending: Jeff, Derrick, Ali, Laura, Tom, Russ

Notes:
Software Freedom Conservancy

Letter to the community about the foundation resulted in no
public discussion or commentary whatsover. We've done our due diligence
and thus can approach the Software Freedom Conservancy about moving forward

The primary possible concern with the SFC is the trademark
issue.  They may tell us it's not an issue, they may help us resolve it,
or they may say that we should go ahead with a name change to avoid the
trademark.

By unanimous vote of those present, motion to send the letter to
the SFC passed. 

Current topics

Large numbers of people already shipping Windows 7 due to the
staggered release.  The existing clients will work on Windows 7, except
that the client cannot run binaries out of AFS due to new security
measures that Windows put into place around SMB. This will be a serious
problem for many organizations.

The solution is the redirector, and we're far along in having
that reimplemented.  Testing last week at Microsoft.  There are some
bugs that need to be sorted out, but the interop with third-party device
drivers went very smoothly.

There are some remaining hard user interface questions, since the
existing credential manager and control panel tools are not compatible
with Windows 7 and will need to either be removed or replaced.

Day zero support for Snow Leopard including 32 and 64 bit, userspace and
kernel. Have 1.4 for Snow Leopard, will release a new full 1.4 release
sometime this year regardless of what happens with 1.5.  However, the
goal is to release 1.6 this year. 1.5 testing ongoing by several Elders
as well as in the community.

All Debian source patches have been pushed to Gerrit, so we are very close
to having Debian build from upstream.

Not a lot of progress on documentation, but there are some
patches from Jason Edgecombe being merged.
We've made progress on moving the website into Git, but completion is
waiting for Jeff Hutzelman to have time to cut
over the production site. Derrick will provide a bridge in the meantime to
cut over.

Google Summer of Code
Concluded for the year. For Linux kAFS, code for pioctl support for
kafs with file attributes and possibly a standard /proc interface for
global requests is ready for merging into the kernel.  Assuming that's
accepted to the kernel, OpenAFS should evaluate whether we can use the
same interface. That would allow kafs to use the OpenAFS userland tools.

Management console for Windows made the most progress of any project.
Brent has a working framework and installation and removal and
some of the functionality.  It will need to be completed outside of SoC,
but the basics are there.

Jake was working on the server preference algorithm in the client
with something more intelligent and not based on classful networks.  The
new algorithm is based on exported performance characteristics from rx
combined with statistics from fetchdata and storedata and dynamically
adjusts priorities every five minutes. Code is not ready for integration into
a release at this point, but is available as a standalone package in the
short term.  It will need to wait until there are improvements in the
rx library for calculation of the timeout value.  Currently, the library
doesn't include enough events and includes events that will result in
miscalculation and a much higher timeout value than is appropriate.

Jake's work so far not available for Unix, but we're not worried
about that.  He may finish, or Derrick can lift it from the Windows client.


Two events in September.  Hackathon at Edinburgh organized by Simon
with ten developers attending, which is quite good for a hackathon and
the travel required.  The focus will be on wire protocol changes.  Over
the next few weeks there will be a proposal sent to the standardization
list for the rxk5 security class. A document for rxgk should also be
published in roughly the same time frame.
That makes for a busy agenda and everything probably won't get
done, but hopefully there will be a lot of progress.

In the following week is the European AFS conference in Rome.
Derrick and Jeff will be going to both events, and on October 1st
will be meeting with representatives of CASPUR and CERN who are
interested in discussing organization of development resources for
OpenAFS in Europe.

Current balance in the Elders fund at CMU:
Without the Secure Endpoints invoice for the 2009 Workshop, $37,637.
After, $19,539. 
April 1st, $31,931.  There were another $9,500 receipts after that.
We would have then lost a percent of that from credit card fees.
However, that's more than 2%, so Tom will investigate whether
something was charged incorrectly against the account.

Concluding items:

Jeff will let us know what he hears back from the SFC.  One to
six months is normal, although for us it will probably be on the shorter
side.

Meeting concludes.
